Muhammad Azwar is currently active as a lecturer in the Library Science study program at Syarif Hidayatullah State Islamic University Jakarta, Indonesia. Actively teaching several courses related to information technology, such as databases and computer networks, web engineering, digital libraries and archives, archival automation systems, and digital library marketing. Completed undergraduate education at STAI Madinatul Ilmi, Depok, in Islamic Religious Education in 2005. Received the opportunity to study at the University of Indonesia Library Science study program in 2009 with a scholarship from the Ministry of Religion and obtained a Master's degree in 2011. He is studying doctoral studies at UIN Syarif Hidayatullah Postgraduate School, Islamic Studies study program in library science. 
The author actively participates in seminars and training on education (teaching), librarianship, and information and communication technology (ICT). The author is active as a resource person in various seminars and training activities (workshops) related to automation systems, digital libraries and information literacy. In addition, the author is also a library consultant, especially in the implementation of automation systems in various libraries.
Several reputable international articles have been published, namely entitled "Evaluating The Library Website Of The Indonesian Ministry of Education And Culture Through The End-User Computing Satisfaction (EUCS) Model" and "Comparison of Emotional Intelligence, Self Development, Decision for Selecting a Profession and Work Productivity between Librarian with Education in Library Science and Inpassing Librarian in Indonesia". A book entitled "Information literacy skills: online information retrieval strategies" and several works of proceedings, book chapters, and other journal articles.
